STMFADM(1M)                  Maintenance Commands                  STMFADM(1M)

NAME
     stmfadm – SCSI target mode framework command line interface

SYNOPSIS
     stmfadm add-hg-member -g host-group initiator...
     stmfadm add-tg-member -g target-group target...
     stmfadm add-view [-h host-group] [-n lu-number] [-t target-group] lu-name
     stmfadm create-hg group-name
     stmfadm create-lu [-p property=value]... [-s size] lu-file
     stmfadm create-tg group-name
     stmfadm delete-hg group-name
     stmfadm delete-lu [-k] lu-name
     stmfadm delete-tg group-name
     stmfadm import-lu lu-file
     stmfadm list-hg [-v] [host-group]...
     stmfadm list-lu [-v] [lu-name]...
     stmfadm list-state
     stmfadm list-target [-v] [target]...
     stmfadm list-tg [-v] [target-group]...
     stmfadm list-view -l lu-name [view]...
     stmfadm modify-lu [-f] [-p property=value]... [-s size] lu-arg
     stmfadm offline-lu lu-name
     stmfadm offline-target target
     stmfadm online-lu lu-name
     stmfadm online-target target
     stmfadm remove-hg-member -g host-group initiator...
     stmfadm remove-tg-member -g target-group target...
     stmfadm remove-view [-a] -l lu-name view...

DESCRIPTION
     The stmfadm command configures logical units within the SCSI Target Mode
     Framework (STMF) framework.  The framework and this man page use the
     following terminology:

     initiator
             A device responsible for issuing SCSI I/O commands to a SCSI
             target and logical unit.

     target  A device responsible for receiving SCSI I/O commands for a
             logical unit.

     logical unit
             A device within a target responsible for executing SCSI I/O
             commands.

     logical unit number
             The identifier of a logical unit within a target.

     host group
             An host group is a set of one or more initiators that are
             combined for the purposes of being applied to a view (see below).
             An initiator cannot be a member of more than one host group.

     target group
             A target group is a set of one or more SCSI target ports that are
             treated the same when creating a view (see below).  The set of
             logical units that a particular SCSI initiator can see is
             determined by the combined set of views.

             Each logical unit has a set of view entries, and each view entry
             specifies a target group, host group, and a LUN.  An initiator
             from that host group, when connecting through that target group,
             is able to identify and connect to that logical unit using the
             specified LUN.  You can use views to restrict the set of logical
             units that a specific initiator can see, and assign the set of
             LUNs that will be used.

     view    A view defines the association of a host group, a target group,
             and a logical unit number with a specified logical unit.  Any
             view entry added to a logical unit must not be in conflict with
             existing view entries for that logical unit.  A view entry is
             considered to be in conflict when an attempt is made to duplicate
             the association of any given host, target and logical unit
             number.

   Logical Unit Properties
     The following logical unit properties can be set only when creating LU
     using create-lu subcommand:

     blk=num
             Specifies the block size for the device.  The default is 512.

     guid=string
             32 hexadecimal ASCII characters representing a valid NAA
             Registered Extended Identifier.  The default is set by the STMF
             to a generated value.

     meta=path
             Metadata file name.  When specified, will be used to hold the
             SCSI metadata for the logical unit.  There is no default.

     oui=string
             Organizational Unique Identifier.  Six hexadecimal ASCII
             characters representing the IEEE OUI company ID assignment.  This
             will be used to generate the device identifier (GUID).  The
             default is 00144F.

     pid=string
             16 bytes ASCII string defining Product ID per SCSI SPC-3.  This
             value will be reflected in the Standard INQUIRY data returned for
             the device.  The default is COMSTAR.

     serial=string
             Serial Number.  Specifies the SCSI Vital Product Data Serial
             Number (page 80h).  It is a character value up to 252 bytes in
             length.  There is no default value.

     vid=string
             8 bytes ASCII string defining Vendor ID per SCSI SPC-3.  This
             value will be reflected in the Standard INQUIRY data returned for
             the device.  The default is SUN.

     The following logical unit properties can be set when creating LU using
     create-lu subcommand or modified using modify-lu subcommand:

     alias=string
             Up to 255 characters, representing a user-defined name for the
             device.  The default is the name of the backing store.

     mgmt-url=string
             Up to 1024 characters representing a Management Network Address
             URL.  More than one URL can be passed as a single parameter by
             using space-delimited URLs enclosed inside a single pair of
             quotation marks (").

     wcd=true|false
             Write-back cache disable.  Determines write-back cache disable
             behavior.  The default is the write-back cache setting of the
             backing store device specified by the lu-file argument.

     wp=true|false
             Write-protect bit.  Determines whether the device reports as
             write-protected.  The default is false.

   Subcommands
     The stmfadm command supports the subcommands listed below.

     stmfadm add-hg-member -g host-group initiator...
             Add a host group member to a host group.

             An initiator cannot be a member of more than one host group.

             -g,--group-name host-group
                     Specifies group name.  host-group must be an existing
                     group created using the create-hg subcommand.

     stmfadm add-tg-member -g target-group target...
             Add a target group member to a target group.

             A target cannot be a member of more than one target group.

             -g,--group-name target-group
                     Specifies group name.  target-group must be an existing
                     group created using the create-tg subcommand.

     stmfadm add-view [-h host-group] [-n lu-number] [-t target-group] lu-name
             Add a logical unit view entry to a logical unit lu-name, where
             lu-name is the STMF name for the logical unit as displayed by the
             list-lu subcommand.  The add-view subcommand provides the user
             with a mechanism to implement access control for a logical unit
             and also provides a means of assigning a logical unit number to a
             logical unit for a given set of initiators and targets.  A
             logical unit will not be available to any initiators until at
             least one view is applied.  Each view entry gets assigned an
             entry name, which can be used to reference the entry in the
             list-view and remove-view subcommands.

             -h,--host-group host-group
                     host-group is the name of an host group previously
                     created using create-hg subcommand.  If this option is
                     not specified, the logical unit will be available to all
                     initiators that log in to the STMF framework.

             -n,--lun lu-number
                     lu-number is an integer in the range 0-16383 to be
                     assigned to the logical unit for this view entry.  If
                     this option is not specified, a logical unit number will
                     be assigned by the STMF framework.

             -t,--target-group target-group
                     target-group is the name of a target group previously
                     created using create-tg subcommand.  If this option is
                     not specified, the logical unit will be available through
                     all targets.

     stmfadm create-hg group-name
             Create a host group with the name group-name.  group-name is a
             string of Unicode characters with a maximum length of 255.  The
             group name must be unique within the STMF system.

     stmfadm create-lu [-p property=value]... [-s size] lu-file
             Create a logical unit that can be registered with STMF.  lu-file
             is the file to be used as the backing store for the logical unit.
             If the -s option is not specified, the size of the specified
             lu-file will be used as the size of the logical unit.

             Logical units registered with the STMF require space for the
             metadata to be stored.  When a zvol is specified as the backing
             store device, the default will be to use a special property of
             the zvol to contain the metadata.  For all other devices, the
             default behavior will be to use the first 64k of the device.  An
             alternative approach would be to use the meta property in a
             create-lu subcommand to specify an alternate file to contain the
             metadata.  It is advisable to use a file that can provide
             sufficient storage of the logical unit metadata, preferably 64k.

             -p,--lu-prop property=value
                     Set specified logical unit property.  Check Logical Unit
                     Properties for the list of available properties.

             -s,--size size
                     size is an integer followed by one of the following
                     letters, to indicate a unit of size: k, m, g, t, p, e,
                     specifying kilobyte, megabyte, gigabyte, terabyte,
                     petabyte and exabyte respectively.

     stmfadm create-tg group-name
             Create a target group with the name group-name.  group-name is a
             string of Unicode characters with a maximum length of 255.  The
             group name must be unique within the STMF system.

     stmfadm delete-hg group-name
             Delete the host group identified by group-name.

     stmfadm delete-lu [-k] lu-name
             Delete an existing logical unit that was created using create-lu
             subcommand.  This effectively unloads the logical unit from the
             STMF framework.  Any existing data on the logical unit remains
             intact.

             -k,--keep-views
                     Keep view entries for this logical unit.

     stmfadm delete-tg group-name
             Delete the target group identified by group-name.

     stmfadm import-lu lu-file
             Import and load a logical unit into the STMF that was previously
             created using create-lu subcommand and was then deleted from the
             STMF using delete-lu subcommand.  On success, the logical unit is
             again made available to the STMF.  lu-file is the filename used
             in the create-lu subcommand.  If this logical unit is using a
             separate metadata file, the filename in the meta property value
             that was used in the create-lu subcommand must be used here.

     stmfadm list-hg [-v] [host-group]...
             List information for the host group in the system referenced by
             host-group.  If host-group is not specified, all host groups in
             the system will be listed.

             -v,--verbose
                     Display all host group members.

     stmfadm list-lu [-v] [lu-name]...
             List information for the logical unit in the system referenced by
             lu-name.  If lu-name is not specified, all logical units in the
             system will be listed.

             -v,--verbose
                     Display verbose information about the logical unit.

     stmfadm list-state
             List the operational and configuration state of the STMF.

     stmfadm list-target [-v] [target]...
             List information for the target port in the system referenced by
             target.  If target name is not specified, all target ports in the
             system will be listed.

             -v,--verbose
                     Display verbose information about the target along with
                     SCSI session information for logged-in initiators.

     stmfadm list-tg [-v] [target-group]...
             List information for the target group in the system referenced by
             target-group.  If target-group is not specified, all target
             groups in the system will be listed.

             -v,--verbose
                     Display all group members.

     stmfadm list-view -l lu-name [view]...
             List the view entry for the logical unit referenced by lu-name.
             If view is not specified, all view entries for the specified
             logical unit will be listed.

             -l,--lu-name lu-name
                     Specify logical unit.

     stmfadm modify-lu [-f] [-p property=value]... [-s size] lu-arg
             Modify attributes of a logical unit created using the create-lu
             subcommand.  If -f is not specified, lu-arg is interpreted as
             lu-name.

             -f,--file
                     If specified, lu-arg is interpreted as file name.  This
                     provides the ability to modify a logical unit that is not
                     currently imported into the STMF.

             -p,--lu-prop property
                     Modify specified logical unit property.  See Logical Unit
                     Properties for the list of available properties.

             -s,--size size
                     size is an integer followed by one of the following
                     letters, to indicate a unit of size: k, m, g, t, p, e,
                     specifying kilobyte, megabyte, gigabyte, terabyte,
                     petabyte and exabyte respectively.

     stmfadm offline-lu lu-name
             Offline a logical unit currently registered with the STMF.

     stmfadm offline-target target-name
             Offline the specified target.

     stmfadm online-lu lu-name
             Online a logical unit currently registered with the STMF.

     stmfadm online-target target
             Online the specified target.

     stmfadm remove-hg-member -g host-group initiator
             Remove specified initiator from host group

             -g,--group-name host-group
                     Specifies group name.  host-group must be an existing
                     group created using the create-hg subcommand.

     stmfadm remove-tg-member -g target-group target
             Remove specified target from target group.

             -g,--group-name taget-group
                     Specifies group name.  target-group must be an existing
                     group created using the create-tg subcommand.

     stmfadm remove-view [-a] -l lu-name view...
             Remove one or more view entries from a logical unit.

             -a,--all
                     Remove all view entries for this logical unit.

             -l,--lu-name
                     Specify logical unit.

EXAMPLES
     Example 1 Creating a Host group with Two Initiator Ports
             The following commands use the create-hg and add-hg-member
             subcommands to create a host group and add two initiator ports to
             that host group.

             # stmfadm create-hg HostA
             # stmfadm add-hg-member -g HostA wwn.210105b0000d92d0

     Example 2 Adding a View Entry to a Logical Unit
             The following command uses the add-view subcommand to allow
             access from HostA to a logical unit.

             # stmfadm add-view -h HostA 6000AE40C5000000000046FC4FEA001C

     Example 3 Listing a View Entry
             The following command uses the list-view subcommand to list all
             view entries for the specified logical unit.

             # stmfadm list-view -l 6000AE40C5000000000046FC4FEA001C
             View Entry: 0
                 Host group   : HostA
                 Target group : All
                 LUN          : 0

INTERFACE STABILITY
     Committed

SEE ALSO
     sbdadm(1M), attributes(5)

illumos                          March 1, 2016                         illumos

